_Do you believe in the idea of the multiverse? That there are many worlds existing parallel to our own? Planes of existence beyond our mundane reality? Well I do. I believe a near-infinite number of worlds exist, each with its own history.  Its own story.  Among the greatest, is the world of Abeir-Toril, a world of many, diverse and varied races and creatures.  A world where magic reigns  and mystery underwrites all the great stories.   A grand place, fit for a setting of adventure and intrigue, especially on the coastal shores of Faerûn.  Above and below..._

_The outside, surface world would look familiar, to you or I. There are cities and forests and lakes, swamps, fens, and so on. Many places may appear safe, but danger (and adventure) lurk around every corner..  The wooded groves outside the cities are the haven of bandits and thugs, but also creatures of the wood: Goblins and Bugbears, Shambling mounds who can devour a horse whole, Harpies who steal children in the night and Wyverns who make their roosts in the forests that line mountain ranges._  

_The bogs are home to lizardfolk, bullywugs and mongogols, not all that dissimilar from one another, yet they wage war none-the-less, the lizardfolk fighting for the chromatic dragon they worship, the bullywugs and mongogols for territory or game.  Crones, nighthags and greenhags, make the bogs their coven, where they trade in trinkets and baubles — a voodoo doll for a besmirched lover, fingernails of a thief, the scalp of a forgotten King, a pickled cyclops eye, jars filled with green and fleshy things — and obtain ingredients for their black magics that prolong their unnatural lives._

_This is a world whose mountains house not just magma and stone, but twisting mines and cities of the Svirfneblin, Deep Gnomes, who harvest the rubies, gems and other precious stones with their stone weaving.  In the deep depths of their mines, they carry no lights, for their eyes see in the dark.  They watch for Underdark creatures, Hook Horrors with blades for arms, Gricks who meld into the stone wall, and, most dangerous off all, the other intelligent denizens of that world: the Illithids, the wicked Drow and the Duergar. A dangerous place.  An entire world, beneath the surface. More dangerous than the land above, but not by much._  

Far and away, rumors hint at dark jungles teaming with unknown monsters. Ancient beasts, thought lost to history make the ground shudder and rumble. The undead shuffle, driven by a nameless master. The tropical forests almost feast on explorers who seek glory and fortune, while bird-like men, the Aarakoca, either help or hinder the passing adventurer. If one isn’t careful, a yuan-ti may claim a soul lost in the jungles. Or more likely, a hired henchmen of one of the merchant princes!

_Magic is common here, and comes in many sizes and forms.   Both Good and Evil; the restoration of health, or necromancy and defiling of corpses.   Among the most novice, parlor tricks can be performed: changing the color of lights, producing the sound of whispers, preventing a bouquet of flowers from wilting.  And among the powerful: teleportation across worlds — through worlds — reclamation from death, tearing open a void to satiate an ever hungering Elder Evil, or a Wish that could change the outcome of the future … or the past. Magic that can pierce the veil that separates the many planes; the material, the astral, the Hells, Feywild or the Abyss.  Shadowfell mimics reality, a reflection or echo of our the material world, but cast in bleaker tones.  A desolate place, and the planar home of the Raven Queen, a deity of fate and destiny, and therefore death._

_There are many Gods who watch over Toril.  Men and women of valor and glory live in this world as paragons and lightning rods for their god.  Clerics channel their devotion to them and can commit great acts of kindness or malice.  Fanatics for their god can be those who give everything for the poor and downtrodden, or they can be the fanatical variety that partake in human sacrifices and restoration of power for their betrayer god.  This is a world of spectrum, of great good and great evil, but most reside somewhere in the middle._

_Where we begin or adventure, near one of the cities of Faerûn, the world functions much like our own.  The cities are places of both wealth and poverty, of corruption and goodness, of opportunity and pitfalls.  Hubs of commerce and culture, these are places with rich history.  Neverwinter, a city who sits upon a great hot bed of magma, never feels a cold day.  It nearly succumbed to the Spell Plague and evil devices of a Necromancer who took up residence in Neverwinter Wood._  

_And many others, like Baldur’s Gate or Waterdeep, two more coastal towns with their economy or culture.  Or Port Nyanzaru, in the land of Chult, far south where the land sits in perpetual heat and rain. Explorers there are encouraged not to venture beyond the safety of the city, and for good reason.  While riches, gems, and gold may be found, so too can one find death, horror, and much, much worse.  Exploration is dangerous, stray too far into the darkness and you’ll lumber into a pack of kobolds or grung, or worse a fregehemoth, an elephant-sized amphibian who inhabits the rivers._

_You should know, this world is ancient. Civilizations have risen and fallen repeatedly on top of each other, or have been lost to nature. Ancient and new treasures alike can be found both in ruins of an old and forgotten fortress or in the treasure room of a powerful lich or dragon. Magical artifacts created long ago, or new inventions from the slightly insane wizard in his isolated tower in the country can be found if one just has the courage (and tenacity) to go and find them._

_Adventure awaits for those who seek it.  Today, we find 5 or 6 travelers, seeking to find a bit of their own and perhaps write their story in the annals of Toril’s rich history..._